LumoTree: Path-Parallel Speculative Verification for
Hybrid Language Models
Zhiyuan Ma
zhiyuanma0520@gmail.com

Abstract—Tree speculative decoding for recurrent-hybrid language models requires each accepted path to maintain consistent
recurrent state, convolution history, and attention caches. We
present LumoTree, a GPU serving design that coordinates
verification and commitment through a shared tree descriptor.
The verifier processes independent paths in parallel and reuses
recurrent state tiles across local updates. Boundary states connect
dependent paths. Accepted-path replay publishes the selected
continuation into native running state, alongside coordinated
convolution gathering and attention-cache remapping. Fused
selection, device-resident acceptance, graph replay, and tree-aware
attention integrate this organization into the serving cycle. The
design separates temporary branch computation from persistent
request state while retaining native prefix-cache interfaces. We
evaluate numerical behavior, serving performance, and codingagent outcomes on NVIDIA DGX Spark.
Index Terms—speculative decoding, Gated DeltaNet, state
commitment, numerical reproducibility, language-model serving

I. I NTRODUCTION
Speculative decoding reduces serial target-model invocations
by verifying draft tokens in parallel. Its sampling guarantee
assumes that verification supplies the intended target probabilities. Tree speculation expands the candidate set, but it does
not relax that assumption [1]–[3]. For recurrent-hybrid models,
realizing the verifier requires more than an attention mask:
a candidate must inherit the state of its ancestors, and the
next serving iteration must inherit exactly the path selected for
continuation [4], [5].
LumoTree executes recurrent paths in parallel, reuses state
tiles across updates within each path, and coordinates the accepted continuation across recurrent, convolution, and attention
state. An ancestry-aware attention path and a device acceptance
walk use the same logical tree as recurrent verification and state
publication. A shared descriptor carries ancestry and logical-tophysical mappings through each stage. This system boundary
matters because a verifier can compute plausible candidate
logits yet publish the wrong state for the next iteration.
The central execution choice is to verify branches in
temporary state and replay only the selected path into the native
running state. The verifier scans branch paths, while the fixedshape committer replays accepted operands through native GDN
updates in a captured graph. Their finite-precision agreement
is a separate requirement, not assumed from the recurrence.
This choice exposes concrete optimization questions: how
much branch state to cache, when to recompute ancestry, how
to organize independent GPU work, and how to keep fullvocabulary probability arithmetic on the device. The attention

layout and accepted-state mappings constrain those changes as
much as the recurrent equation does.
The paper studies three coupled design questions in recurrenthybrid tree verification. First, how can branch-local computation produce one coherent continuation across recurrent,
convolution, and attention state? We define a shared logical tree
and coordinate state publication through its logical-to-physical
mapping. Second, how should verification trade temporary
state storage against repeated computation? We use pathparallel scans with shared boundary states and replay the
accepted path into persistent state, building on established
chain-scheduling and replay mechanisms [6], [7]. Third, how
can this organization reduce serving overhead? We combine
fused candidate selection, device-resident acceptance, and
grouped split-K attention with a spine-contiguous KV layout.
We evaluate component numerical agreement, recorded-request
replay against native decoding, and an exploratory coding-agent
deployment. Section IX bounds these results.
The target workload is a long-running coding agent: generation alternates with repository inspection, tool execution, and
tests, and a task can require many model requests. Performance
therefore depends on useful completed work as well as token
production. Our workload evaluation uses explicitly identified
Astropy tasks from SWE-bench Verified [8]. We report the
model, serving route, task cohort, and measurement definition
together; a decode-rate change is not a task-completion speedup.
Candidate-selection and attention tests complement the agentworkload measurements. Sampling exactness is restricted to
penalty-free settings with matching probability filters and
correct target probabilities. The measured presence-penalty1.0 deployment departs from exact sampling after the first
token of each tree step (Section VII-F).
Tree verification and compact accepted-state reconstruction
have direct prior art. Section II positions our implementation
against those mechanisms. Sections III–IV develop the architecture and kernel design; Section V describes the optimizations
that connect them to the serving cycle. Appendix A gives
configuration and measurement details.
II. BACKGROUND AND R ELATED W ORK
A. Drafting, verification, and serving
Speculative sampling constructs an exact target sample
from proposal and residual distributions, conditional on the
probabilities actually supplied [1], [2]. SpecInfer supplies
the tree-verification framing; Sequoia, EAGLE-2, and OPTTree investigate tree construction and its performance conse-

(a) Propose a candidate tree
c

f

a

materialized
prefix

b

(c) Select a path and commit state

Ancestry-aware target forward
Recurrent state

d

m

(b) Verify branch-local computation

path scans

Convolution

path-local filtering

Attention

tree mask + KV map

e
retain within the step

MTP proposals and suffix extensions
share one logical ancestry.

Temporary cut states
and replay operands

Draft tokens carry proposal probabilities q .

Unselected branch state is not published.

Select using p and q

Pending token

p

m

a

b∗

d

not yet in state

Recurrent: replay accepted path
Convolution: gather history
Attention: remap KV entries
One coherent continuation: S(mad)

Shared tree descriptor: parents, positions, attention visibility, and logical-to-physical slots stay consistent across all three stages.

Fig. 1. Tree verification and accepted-path commitment. (a) Drafting provides a candidate tree and proposal probabilities q. (b) Branch-local computation
produces target probabilities p and retains temporary state. (c) Sampling selects a materialized path (here a, d); recurrent replay, convolution gathering, and KV
remapping publish S(mad). The newly sampled token b∗ remains pending. One descriptor keeps logical ancestry and physical storage aligned.

quences [3], [9]–[11]. EAGLE-3 and DFlash further change C. Direct GDN comparisons
the drafter, through feature-conditioned autoregression and
Trees from Marginals (Weaver) combines a factorized
block-parallel diffusion proposals respectively [12], [13]. These drafter with an autoregressive adapter. Its GDN verifier uses an
drafting mechanisms are distinct from the recurrent verifier ancestor-masked triangular solve and replays the selected path
and state-publication choices studied here.
through a short recurrence at commit time; padded verification
PagedAttention and SGLang address the scheduling, memory, shapes support CUDA graphs [7]. Thus read-only speculative
and execution substrate [14], [15]. Marconi addresses prefix- verification followed by accepted-path replay is direct prior art,
cache admission and eviction for hybrid models [16]. Hybrid even when the verification arithmetic differs from ours.
serving additionally manages recurrent-state pools alongside
SpecLA keeps value tiles of recurrent state on chip across
KV storage, as documented by SGLang’s hybrid-model inte- updates within a chain and schedules independent ready chains
gration [17], [18]. Thus neither a fast isolated recurrent kernel in parallel. Boundary states connect dependent chains. This
nor low transient state memory alone determines user-visible directly overlaps both the state reuse and path scheduling
latency. Flash-Decoding splits the KV sequence and combines in LumoTree. SpecLA buffers accepted factors for a later
partial attention results; FlashInfer develops customizable fused update, whereas our publication stage replays recorded
attention with head/query fusion and split-KV execution; DeFT operands through native GDN updates into running rows. Its
specializes KV grouping and partitioning to trees [19]–[21]. evaluation uses a pure GDN model; our serving boundary
FastTree groups queries with shared contexts to reuse KV additionally coordinates convolution and softmax attention [6].
tiles and partitions tree work to control execution cost [22]. SpecLA’s token-replay baseline regenerates factors, so its cost
These attention methods establish precedents for on-chip cannot be assigned to our replay of cached operands.
reuse and tree-aware partitioning. Our modified FlashAttentionBole derives a tree-structured closed form and evaluates it
2 kernel combines ancestry-aware decode, grouped split-K with a value-tiled finite-polynomial solver. It reuses intermediexecution, and a physical layout coordinated with accepted- ate tiles on chip, stores compact update factors, and reconstructs
path publication [23].
the accepted state. Its SGLang integration combines batch-wide
verification
budgeting with captured GPU execution. Evaluation
B. Recurrent and hybrid speculation
includes unquantized Qwen3.5-27B on GB10 and replay of
Gated DeltaNet augments a decayed recurrent state with
recorded OpenHands agent sessions [28]. This is a direct hybrida data-dependent delta update [4]. Parallel delta-rule formuserving comparison. Our evaluation reports recorded-request
lations provide relevant algebraic background [24]. Snakes
replay separately from running the coding agent on tasks.
and Ladders introduces activation replay for SSM speculative
Concretely, Bole’s correction system is (I + G)U = R,
decoding, and STree also uses replay to recover continuation
where G contains strict-ancestor interactions and R is the
state [5], [25]. Stateful speculation is established territory:
source correction. Tree depth d gives Gd+1 = 0, so U =
STree studies speculative trees for hybrid state-space models, Pd
m
m=0 (−G) R. This finite identity changes the arithmetic
SpecMamba targets an FPGA implementation, and componentschedule from sequential updates to matrix propagation [28].
aware self-speculation studies how hybrid components affect
Our path preserves sequential updates and replays accepted
the design [5], [26], [27]. These works motivate an explicit
operands; Section IV-B explains why the numerical comparison
state lineage; they do not justify treating every recurrent update
remains an empirical question.
or numerical implementation as interchangeable.
TreeWY expresses GDN tree verification as a triangular

TABLE I
R ECURRENT VERIFICATION AND CONTINUATION POLICIES . T HESE
MECHANISM COMPARISONS DO NOT RANK THE SYSTEMS BY
PERFORMANCE .

Method

Verification work

Continuation state

Weaver [7]

Ancestor-masked
triangular solve
Resident state tiles;
parallel chains
Finite-Neumann correction
solve
Triangular solve in fused
kernel
Corrected inputs; cached
transitions
Shared-base projections
across beams
Resident state tiles;
parallel paths

Short selected-path
recurrence
Buffered factors; later
fused update
Compact factors; state
reconstruction
Prior-path reconstruction
with next verify
Deferred state update

A. State and the execution boundary
Let m be a materialized token prefix: the tokens already
consumed by the target’s forward computation. Write its
persistent state as

S(m) = R(m), C(m), K(m) ,
(1)

where R collects recurrent matrices, C collects convolution
histories, and K collects attention KV entries. The logical
Bole [28]
emitted prefix can also include a newly sampled token b that
has not yet been consumed. The continuation boundary is then
TreeWY [30]
(S(m), b), not a claim that S(mb) has already been computed.
ReplaySSM [31]
This distinction is essential when counting the correction or
bonus token while checking cache state.
OneLA [32]
Compact per-beam
A tree descriptor contains candidate token IDs, parent
transition records
LumoTree
Native replay; coordinated
indices, depth/position information, attention visibility, and
convolution and KV
maps between logical nodes and physical slots. For a candidate
publication
node i, each target layer must consume the state obtained
from the candidate’s root-to-parent path. At publication, the
system and reconstructs the accepted state from pseudo-values. selected materialized path, pending-token convention, and nextThe author implementation fuses reconstruction of the previous drafter input row must agree. Figure 2 illustrates the three state
accepted state with the next verification, reusing a resident surfaces coordinated by the verifier.
state tile. Its GDN tree kernel supports CUDA graph capture; B. The recurrence and path locality
the paper’s wider-tree fallback to piecewise execution concerns
For one GDN head, let R ∈ Rdv ×dk . Queries and keys are
ancestry masks in the softmax-attention integration [29], [30]. in Rdk and values in Rdv . With decay α and write strength
i
Its B200 evaluation uses greedy verification and disabled β , a node applies the standard update [4]
i
prefix caching. A comparison must therefore include fused

Ri0 = αi Rπ(i) ,
δi = βi vi − Ri0 ki ,
(2)
commit work and distinguish kernel support from whole-model
0
>
execution policy.
Ri = Ri + δi ki ,
oi = Ri qi ,
(3)
ReplaySSM caches recurrent inputs and delays state materialization. Its GDN path uses corrected inputs from a where π(i) is its parent. A previous node in the packed
triangular solve, with commitment represented through buffer buffer need not be π(i). The causal convolution likewise
progress and later state updates [31]. OneLA addresses a requires path predecessors rather than adjacent packed rows.
related state-sharing problem in recommendation beam search: The attention visibility relation must select the same logical
compact transition records and ancestry indices allow projection prefix and ancestry. These requirements follow from the model’s
computation without reconstructing a full state for each beam, computation; a correct attention mask cannot repair a wrong
and a fused kernel shares the prompt-derived state across recurrent parent.
The implementation verifies nodes with branch-local scratch
beams [32]. Its beam-search output and commitment policy
and
makes the selected continuation durable through replay
differ from speculative acceptance. Table I compares state
and
remapping.
This is an implementation route, not the only
lifetimes; published speed ratios from different models and
way
to
satisfy
the
contract. In particular, rejecting a branch
workloads are not combined into a ranking.
requires that its contents cannot influence future computation;
D. Design focus
it does not require zeroing every scratch byte if future reads
LumoTree connects path-parallel recurrent computation to are correctly restricted.
one accepted continuation across the hybrid model. The C. A descriptor shared by verification and commitment
shared descriptor links path boundaries, convolution ancestry,
Figure 1 shows how a shared descriptor connects drafting
attention visibility, physical KV slots, and the next drafter
to continuation. Native multi-token prediction (MTP) supplies
input. Native replay preserves the serving system’s recurrenta principal chain and runner-up candidates; suffix prediction
state ownership while selected-path gathering and remapping
extends selected paths within a bounded candidate capacity [34],
publish the other state components. Spine-first KV placement
[35]. Combining retrieval and neural drafting has prior art,
controls the physical attention reduction layout within this
including SAM Decoding [36]. The verifier derives attention
design, building on established floating-point reduction and
visibility, physical packing, path scheduling, and the acceptance
batch-invariance concerns [33]. Evaluation separates component
walk from the same logical topology. Padding permits reusable
behavior from complete agent-workload performance.
execution shapes while remaining invisible to attention and
selection. The particular tree geometry used in our experiments
III. T REE -V ERIFIER A RCHITECTURE
is specified in Section VI.
SpecLA [6]

Materialized
prefix m

Verify
candidate tree

Select accepted
path a

Recurrent
R(ma)

Convolution
C(ma)

Attention KV
K(ma)

Same selected materialized prefix on all three surfaces;
correction token b may remain pending for the next forward.

CUDA graphs, but they do not replace the request’s persistent
state with a branch-leaf pointer.
The two levels execute in separate GPU launches and
exchange only the boundary states required by downstream
paths. This schedule exposes parallel branch work while
retaining the state-transfer cost at the decomposition boundary.
B. Sequential arithmetic and accepted-path replay

Verification uses sequential path scans with fp32 carried
state, raw gate inputs, and in-kernel query/key normalization.
Accepted-path replay uses native fused GDN updates with
recorded accepted operands and in-place publication to the
fp32 state bank. Its graph contains one native update call
The attention layout places the principal spine first in per GDN layer. Query/key normalization, beta conversion,
the physical suffix and permutes KV write locations and gate evaluation, and output casts can differ between these
ancestry-mask key columns while retaining logical query-row implementations; agreement is not guaranteed by their common
and position order. Selection remains in logical-node space; real-arithmetic recurrence.
accepted-path publication maps those nodes back to their
The sampling stage produces accepted node indices and path
physical slots. This distinction prevents a layout optimization lengths on the GPU. Recurrent replay, convolution publication,
from silently changing which key/value entries a branch reads. and attention-KV publication consume this same path. Graph
Recurrent paths begin at the native pre-tree state or a transient capture reduces host launch overhead for the sequence of percut state; the device committer publishes the selected recurrent layer native updates; each layer retains its own update kernel.
and convolution state into native running rows and re-linearizes
C. Temporary state versus recomputation
its attention KV entries.
Algorithm 1 states the intended probability and continuation
Path decomposition caches the states needed where downcontract and separates candidate verification, path selection, stream paths branch, then reuses them across independent work.
and state publication. The deployed history-dependent logits If a program exports Nc cut states with value-tile width Bv
processing does not satisfy its intended target-probability and key dimension dk , their fp32 payload is
assumption beyond the first token of each step; Section VII-F
Mcut = 4Nc Bv dk bytes.
(4)
audits that defect. Every publication operation uses the same
∗
materialized path A. A newly sampled token b can be emitted This counts one head and value tile’s logical export payload.
while remaining pending: its state is created by the next target The current reusable scratch allocation reserves a full matrix
forward.
slot for each actual node even though only required cut states
are written; allocated bytes therefore differ from state traffic.
IV. GPU S CAN AND ACCEPTED -PATH R EPLAY
Recomputing ancestry could remove some exports at the cost
A. Path-parallel verification and state lifetime
of repeating updates. Exporting every candidate state would
The GDN verifier decomposes the tree into dependent path instead trade more writes for less recomputation. The two-level
groups, a scheduling family also studied by SpecLA [6]. A first path schedule occupies a particular point in this design space.
path starts from the request’s pre-tree state and exports the cut
Accepted-path replay carries one state tile through a bounded
states needed by downstream paths. The second level evaluates path loop. Its carried-state footprint is O(Bv dk ) in tree size,
independent branch paths from those cut states. Each GPU while the recorded operands and candidate outputs scale with
program covers one path, head, and value tile, retaining the the verification shape. Static padding makes graph buffers
full key dimension in its working state tile. Sequential updates and kernel geometry reusable, but padded rows must remain
reuse this tile through the path loop rather than loading a invisible to attention and selection. Neither a shorter logical
full recurrent state for every node. Candidate outputs continue path nor fewer state writes alone establishes a faster complete
through the model; rounded operands are recorded for later request.
accepted-path replay. The source expresses this local reuse;
The closest scheduling comparison is SpecLA: both systems
register allocation and spills remain compiler- and geometry- carry state tiles through sequential paths and parallelize ready
dependent.
paths. Their continuation policies differ. SpecLA buffers
Cut states and operand rings are temporary within a verifi- accepted factors for application in a later fused update [6];
cation step. The durable continuation resides in the request- LumoTree immediately replays recorded operands through
owned native recurrent and convolution running rows. Replay native per-layer updates and publishes the matching convolution
starts from the pre-tree running state and publishes the accepted and attention state. Weaver also uses selected-path replay,
frontier back to those rows; prefix-cache snapshots and restores but verifies candidates with a triangular solve [7]. Bole
use that native layout. Static work buffers can be reused by reconstructs accepted states from compact factors in a batched
commit [28]. TreeWY can fuse prior-frontier reconstruction
Fig. 2. The accepted-prefix interface. Recurrent, convolution, and attentionKV state must all describe the same materialized prefix. A newly sampled
correction or bonus token can remain pending until the next forward.

Algorithm 1 Tree verification and native continuation
Input: Native continuation state; candidate tree T ; proposal probabilities q
Output: Emitted tokens; updated native state; next drafter input; any pending token
Verify candidates
1: Map T to physical slots, positions, and ancestor masks.
2: p ← target probabilities from path-local GDN, convolution, and attention computation.
3: Retain candidate hidden states, rounded replay operands, convolution histories, and temporary KV entries.
Select one continuation
4: (A, b∗ ) ← accepted materialized path and pending token from sampling with p and q.
Publish the same path across all state components
5: for each GDN layer do
6:
Replay recorded operands along A into the native recurrent state.
7:
Gather the convolution history for A into the native running row.
8: end for
9: Remap the accepted KV entries using the same logical-to-physical slot map.
10: Select the matching hidden-state row for the next drafter input.
11: Advance positions along A; keep b∗ pending until its target forward.
12: return Emitted tokens and the updated continuation boundary.

Recorded node operands

Scan dependent path groups
temporary cut-state exports

Replay selected
path from R0
one carried state tile

sele
c

Candidate outputs
complete forward
and acceptance

ted

path

Pre-tree state R0

Publish accepted state
to native running rows

Fig. 3. State lifetime in the path-scan verifier. Temporary cut states connect
path groups; recorded operands support selected-path replay. Only the accepted
frontier becomes native persistent state.

with the next verification while retaining its working tile [30].
Thus, LumoTree pairs path recurrence with immediate native
replay and coordinated hybrid-state publication. This pays
explicit accepted-path update work in exchange for returning
each iteration to the native state representation. Complete-cycle
measurements must include that tradeoff.
V. O PTIMIZING THE L UMOT REE V ERIFICATION C YCLE
The architectural choice in Section IV is realized through
the implementation changes below. Three representations must
agree: logical tree nodes, temporary verification storage, and
the native state used by the next forward. LumoTree carries
one accepted path across these representations and reorganizes
preparation and selection around it, using established techniques
such as fusion and graph replay. The nontrivial constraints
arise at their boundaries: changing a slot order, a rounding
step, or a tied candidate can change which continuation the
next iteration consumes. Table II summarizes the changes and
these constraints.

A. One device-selected path drives native continuation
Selecting valid output tokens does not by itself update
a hybrid model’s state. The recurrent matrix must contain
the accepted updates, convolution must retain the accepted
history, attention must reference the accepted KV entries,
and the drafter must receive the corresponding hidden row.
Reconstructing these choices separately on the host introduces
path-list preparation and synchronization between acceptance
and publication.
LumoTree replaces that handoff with fixed-shape device
products: accepted node indices, path lengths, emitted tokens,
and the selected final row. These products feed native recurrent
replay, convolution gathering, KV remapping, and drafter-row
selection. Recorded operands are staged for the native per-layer
updates in one captured committer graph; convolution and KV
publication use the same selected path. Graph capture amortizes
launch orchestration, while the shared path prevents each state
component from independently interpreting acceptance.
The distinction between emitted and materialized tokens
must survive this handoff. A correction or bonus token may be
emitted while remaining pending for the next target forward;
padded path entries must not advance state. After publication,
the implementation stores persistent state in native request
rows and branch cut states in temporary scratch. The native
representation supports the intended prefix-cache and servinggraph interface. The implementation captures the serving,
drafter, and committer stages separately.
B. One slot map governs attention and publication
An ancestry mask specifies visible keys, but does not specify
their physical placement or the reduction groups that process
them. Interleaving masked branch columns with spine keys can
change the online-softmax reduction layout even when logical

Algorithm 2 Path-parallel scan and accepted-path replay
Input: Candidate tree T and the pre-tree recurrent state for each GDN layer
Output: Recurrent outputs for all candidates; native recurrent state for the accepted path
Verify paths; keep branch state temporary
1: for each GDN layer reached during the target forward do
2:
Compute and record this layer’s rounded node operands.
3:
for each path group, in dependency order do
4:
parallel for each ready path, head, and value tile do
5:
Load the working state tile from the pre-tree state or a saved parent cut state.
6:
for each node on this path, in ancestry order do
7:
Update the working tile with this node’s operands; write its recurrent output.
8:
Save the tile if a downstream path needs this node’s state.
9:
end for
10:
end for
11:
end for
12: end for
Finish verification and select a path
13: Complete the target forward and sampling to obtain the accepted materialized path A.
Replay only the accepted path into native recurrent state
14: for each GDN layer do
15:
Start from this layer’s pre-tree recurrent state.
16:
for each node on A, in path order do
17:
Apply the native GDN update using this layer’s recorded operands.
18:
end for
19:
Publish the resulting recurrent state to the request’s native running row.
20: end for
TABLE II
C ONCRETE IMPLEMENTATION CHANGES AROUND THE PATH VERIFIER . T HE THIRD COLUMN IDENTIFIES THE COORDINATION OR NUMERICAL CONSTRAINT
THAT MAKES EACH CHANGE NONTRIVIAL . W ORKLOAD RATES MEASURE THEIR COMBINED EXECUTION .
Starting work or constraint

LumoTree change

What must remain consistent

Host path-list construction between
acceptance and publication
Logical ancestry does not determine
physical KV placement
Per-node convolution histories and
repeated layer preparation
Separate score preparation and
argmax/top-k operations
Repeated KV staging and limited
decode parallelism

Device-selected path feeds captured native replay,
convolution, KV and drafter selection
Spine-contiguous slots with coordinated writes, mask
columns and accepted-path remap
Static ancestry gathers, fused ordered taps and per-layer
operand buffers
One shared logits tensor and fused selection into graph
buffers
Grouped query heads and split-K in the patched
tree-attention kernel

All consumers select the same materialized prefix;
pending and padded tokens do not advance state
Logical query order, physical source slots and native
destination positions agree
Tap order, cast boundaries, history padding and layer
identity
Both reference tie conventions, candidate order and
duplicate behavior
Tree visibility and slot mapping across partitions;
characterized reduction error

visibility is unchanged. Physical ordering therefore matters
both for addressing and for finite-precision execution [33].
LumoTree places the principal spine contiguously in the
candidate suffix while retaining logical query-row and position
order. It applies the same permutation to KV write slots and
ancestry-mask key columns. Acceptance remains in logicalnode space; publication translates the selected nodes through
that slot map into native continuation positions. Reordering only
writes, only masks, or only the final copy would leave another
consumer reading a different branch. The implementation
change is this coordinated mapping across verification and
publication.

The patched FlashAttention-2 decode kernel combines this
layout with grouped query heads that share staged KV tiles and
split-K context partitions. KV reuse and partitioned attention are
established techniques [21], [22]; here they are applied under
the tree’s visibility and slot mapping. They target repeated KV
staging and insufficient parallel work at batch one. Prefill retains
a native-compatible attention path. The current component
tests measure repeatability and numerical error of the deployed
attention kernel; the isolated effect of spine placement remains
an ablation question.

C. Precompute branch histories while preserving arithmetic
The starting tree-convolution implementation constructs
candidate histories with per-node operations and repeats pathrow preparation across layers. LumoTree derives static gather
indices from the topology, gathers windows from the prior
convolution history and candidate inputs, and fuses the tap
computation. Stacked operand buffers retain each GDN layer’s
inputs for subsequent accepted-path replay.
This transformation must preserve more than ancestry.
Convolution tap order and cast boundaries affect the values
recorded for recurrent updates, and unused history positions
must retain the intended padding. A generic reduction can
compute the same real-arithmetic sum in a different floatingpoint order. The fused implementation therefore retains the
ordered tap operations and conversion points while replacing
repeated history construction with prepared data movement.
Each layer still records and replays its own operands.
D. Fuse draft selection without changing proposals
At each MTP head depth, LumoTree computes one fullvocabulary logits tensor and reuses it for the principal token and
sibling candidates. A fused CUDA kernel writes the spine token
and three ordered candidate indices directly into reusable graph
buffers, replacing separate argmax/top-k reductions and their
output copies. The principal chain advances through captured
MTP iterations; sibling selection reuses its scores, and suffix
prediction extends selected paths within the fixed verification
capacity.
The subtlety is that argmax and top-k do not have interchangeable tie behavior. The reference argmax chooses the
lowest maximal token index, while its top-k operation orders
selected ties differently. Simply taking the first top-k result
as the spine token can change the proposal tree. Our fused
selection preserves both reference outputs, including duplicate
proposals where produced by the reference. Exact-output and
captured-replay tests check this component. The optimization
removes redundant score preparation and selection work while
retaining the vocabulary projection.
VI. E VALUATION S ETUP
We evaluate Qwen3.8-27B NVFP4 on a single NVIDIA
DGX Spark (GB10) using a coding-agent study, recordedrequest replay, full-model continuation diagnostics, and isolated
recurrent measurements. Qwen Code performs repository
edits and tool calls on ten SWE-bench Verified Astropy
tasks [8], once per task under each of three serving arms:
LumoTree, native five-token MTP, and SGLang EAGLE. The
benchmark evaluator tests nonempty patches; empty patches
count as unresolved attempts. Separate replays compare serving
configurations on two disjoint corpora of 43 requests each.
Decode rates pool token counts and decode durations over the
same completed requests, excluding time to first output. Agent
duration additionally includes tools and repository operations;
server startup and evaluation are separate.
All three arms load the same ModelOpt mixed-precision
checkpoint. Target MLP weights and the vocabulary projection

use NVFP4, attention projections use FP8, and activations
and KV storage use BF16; recurrent state uses FP32. The
checkpoint’s one-layer MTP module remains BF16. Native
MTP and LumoTree use this module, and SGLang invokes
it through its EAGLE implementation without a separately
trained draft checkpoint. Native MTP and LumoTree share the
vLLM build; SGLang uses a separate serving stack.
The evaluated tree has 27 draft candidates and one root,
padded to 32 verification rows. A five-depth MTP head supplies
15 candidates; suffix prediction adds a six-token principal tail
and rescue branches of four and two tokens. Maximum draft
depth is eleven. Five MTP passes construct the head, including
four forwards after its initial prediction; the deeper suffix
extensions do not require additional MTP passes. Attention
groups query heads in pairs and divides the context into four
partitions. The model has 48 GDN layers and sixteen fullattention layers. All main LumoTree workload runs use this
geometry and the patched FlashAttention-2 path. Appendix A
gives the serving configuration; the accompanying artifact
identifies each source and kernel version.
The first replay corpus contains 43 requests recorded from the
Astropy tasks 12907 and 13033. Each configuration receives
the same saved messages and tool definitions, sequentially with
at most one active request. Reported vLLM prompt lengths
range from 23,024 to 68,557 tokens. Sampling uses temperature
0.6, top-p 0.95, top-k 20, and presence penalty 1.0, with a
1,024-token response cap and no per-request seed. This protocol
measures fixed-request serving behavior; generated tool calls
are not executed. At presence penalty 1.0, the deployed tree
sampler’s history processing departs from exact sampling after
the first token of each step (Section VII-F); these rates therefore
do not compare equal output distributions.
Native autoregressive decoding, chain MTP, and LumoTree
use the same checkpoint, vLLM image, tokenizer, chat template,
and common serving settings, including prefix caching, chunked
prefill, a 131,072-token context limit, and one active sequence.
The native arms use their native attention invocation; LumoTree
uses its specialized tree-attention path. For the cross-stack
comparison, we capture the complete input token sequence
from vLLM’s tokenizer endpoint and pass those IDs directly
to SGLang’s generation endpoint. All 43 sequences match the
vLLM prompt lengths and the SGLang run records. SGLang
EAGLE uses the same checkpoint, FlashInfer attention, and
its own prefill and streaming implementation.
The disjoint corpus selects 43 of 61 captured requests from
native-MTP agent executions on tasks 14096, 14309, 14508,
and 14995, across five conversations. Selection allocates
requests proportionally across conversations and spaces them
through capture order. Its manifest is frozen before any replay;
neither message bodies nor initial user messages overlap the
first corpus. LumoTree and native MTP-5 replay these saved
messages in three runs each; SGLang has one run. SGLang uses
its chat endpoint for this corpus, so matching messages does
not establish matching serialized input IDs. Input collection is
distinct from the 30-attempt task-outcome study.
For vLLM and the disjoint corpus’s SGLang chat endpoint,

TABLE III
T EN - TASK CODING - AGENT STUDY, ONE ATTEMPT PER TASK AND ARM .
M INUTES SUM AGENT DURATIONS , INCLUDING TOOLS BUT EXCLUDING
SERVER STARTUP AND EVALUATION . D ECODE RATES USE
SERVER - COUNTER DIFFERENCES IN E Q . 5; THE TREE ARM USES
APPROXIMATE PENALTY HISTORIES .

Arm
LumoTree
Native MTP-5
SGLang EAGLE

TABLE IV
S AMPLED REPLAY OF 43 RECORDED REQUESTS , CAPPED AT 1,024 OUTPUT
TOKENS . R ATES POOL MATCHED TOKEN AND TIME TOTALS ACROSS ALL
RUNS . R ANGES DESCRIBE INDIVIDUAL RUN RATES , NOT CONFIDENCE
INTERVALS . T REE PENALTY HISTORIES ARE APPROXIMATE
(S ECTION VII-F). SGL ANG RECEIVES THE SAME INPUT TOKEN ID S BUT
USES A DIFFERENT STACK AND STREAMING ENDPOINT.

Resolved Requests Tokens/s Minutes
5/10
6/10
5/10

236
224
210

26.19
27.17
29.89

144.0
99.5
103.0

the replay client measures time from the first nonempty
streamed content, reasoning, or tool-call delta to stream
completion. For the first corpus’s SGLang token-ID endpoint,
timing begins at the first streamed increase in the completiontoken count. We apply Eq. 5 to these client durations and
server-reported completion counts, pooling matched token
and time totals across requests and repetitions. The estimate
excludes first-output latency and server startup. Subsequent
stream delivery and parser behavior remain in the measured
duration; the endpoint observables are not identical.
VII. R ESULTS

Configuration

Runs

Tokens/s

Run range

vLLM autoregressive
vLLM MTP, 1 token
vLLM MTP, 3 tokens
vLLM MTP, 5 tokens
vLLM MTP, 7 tokens
LumoTree

1
1
1
3
1
3

10.54
15.37
22.06
26.12
25.72
28.79

—
—
—
26.04–26.23
—
28.38–29.41

SGLang EAGLE, 7/8

3

29.69

28.91–30.90

for SGLang. Their request counts, prompt lengths, and tool
calls therefore differ as well. The lower LumoTree decode rate
and longer summed agent duration in this study contrast with
the fixed-request replay results below. Sharing tasks and agent
settings does not isolate a verifier’s effect on task completion.
B. Recorded-request replay

Table IV reports complete configuration runs, each containing all 43 requests. Across three runs per arm, LumoTree
The coding-agent study completes 30 attempts: ten selected records 28.79 pooled tokens/s and five-token native MTP
Astropy tasks, once each under LumoTree, native MTP-5, and records 26.12, a 10.2% difference on this corpus. Their
SGLang EAGLE. All arms use Qwen Code 0.19.4, the same individual run rates range from 28.38 to 29.41 and from 26.04
checkpoint, a 24,000-token response cap, and a 9,000-second to 26.23 tokens/s, respectively. Plain autoregressive decoding
task budget. The agent inspects repositories, edits files, and records 10.54 tokens/s in one run. The native MTP sweep uses
executes tools. Table III summarizes all attempts, including one, three, five, or seven draft tokens; five-token MTP has the
four empty patches; Appendix B gives task-level results. The highest observed pooled rate among these settings.
LumoTree arm uses presence penalty 1.0 with the historyFor SGLang, the paired setting denotes speculative steps and
processing defect in Section VII-F, so this is a comparison of draft-token capacity; EAGLE top-k is one. Seven steps and
deployed procedures, not lossless target sampling.
eight draft tokens yield 29.69 pooled tokens/s over three runs
For completed request r, let nr be the output-token count, with identical incoming token IDs. Attention, prefill settings,
`r the server-recorded end-to-end latency, and fr the time to penalty-history processing, and endpoint timing still differ
first output. We report the pooled decode rate
(Section IX). The native MTP sweep is exploratory and has
PR
unequal repetition counts.
(nr − 1)
Dpool = PRr=1
.
(5)
Additional runs disable individual LumoTree optimizations
r=1 (`r − fr )
(Table V). The stock-attention variant completes all 43 requests
Counts and durations cover the same completed requests, in- in three runs and records 26.82 pooled tokens/s. Disabling fused
cluding requests that summarize an overlong agent context. The draft selection or precomputed tap-operand preparation records
numerator counts output intervals; the denominator excludes 29.40 and 29.02 in one run each. Stochastic output lengths
first-output latency and between-request agent/tool work. Thus and limited replication prevent attributing these differences
Dpool measures token production over accumulated request to the individual transformations. Phase and boot-allocation
durations, rather than aggregate wall-clock throughput.
observations below characterize selected variants, without a
LumoTree produces ten nonempty patches, five of which fail complete per-optimization decomposition.
tests. Native MTP-5 produces six resolving patches, two failingPhase timers add a descriptive view of these variants
test patches, and two empty patches; SGLang produces five, (Table VI). Stock attention has a 14.6 ms longer target span
three, and two respectively. Empty patches count as failures and a 15.1 ms longer step than the two instrumented deployed
without invoking the test evaluator. These are descriptive repeats. Disabling fused selection increases the drafter span
outcomes on the selected tasks, not benchmark-wide quality by 0.7 ms; operand-preparation removal has no clear measured
estimates.
separation. Request inputs are shared, but generated trajectories,
The live agent trajectories differ: LumoTree emits 187,137 acceptance lengths, and actual KV capacities differ, so these
output tokens, compared with 134,643 for MTP-5 and 158,827 are not isolated causal effects at identical computation.
A. SWE-bench Verified coding-agent workload

TABLE V
E XPLORATORY REPLAY VARIANTS . E ACH RUN CONTAINS ALL 43
REQUESTS . T HESE MEASUREMENTS DO NOT ESTABLISH ISOLATED
OPTIMIZATION EFFECTS .

Disabled optimization

Runs Tokens/s

Grouped split-K tree attention
Fused draft top-k selection
Precomputed tap-operand preparation

3
1
1

Run range

26.82 26.67–27.11
29.40
—
29.02
—

TABLE VI
M EAN EXECUTION SPANS OF EXPLORATORY REPLAY VARIANTS , IN
MILLISECONDS . E ACH PHASE POOLS ITS OWN DURATION AND TIMER
COUNT. D EPLOYED USES TWO INSTRUMENTED RUNS ; STOCK ATTENTION
THREE ; OTHER VARIANTS ONE .

Configuration

Target Draft Dispatch

Deployed
112.14 49.84
Stock attention
126.78 49.94
Fused selection off
112.32 50.57
Operand preparation off 111.85 49.85

TABLE VII
D ISJOINT 43- REQUEST REPLAY. R ATES POOL MATCHED TOTALS ; RANGES
ARE INDIVIDUAL RUN RATES . R EQUEST MESSAGES ARE SHARED , BUT
SGL ANG USES A DIFFERENT CHAT SERIALIZATION . T HE MEASURED TREE
SAMPLER USES APPROXIMATE PENALTY HISTORIES .

Configuration
LumoTree
vLLM MTP, 5 tokens
SGLang EAGLE, 7/8

Tokens/s

Run range

3
3
1

30.74
27.52
30.24

29.92–31.67
27.41–27.71
—

TABLE VIII
E XPLORATORY DRAFTING - PASS VARIANTS ON THE FIRST 43- REQUEST
CORPUS . T HE DEPLOYED ROW POOLS TWO RUNS ; EACH VARIANT HAS ONE .
GPU DRAFTING AND STEP WALL DURATIONS USE THEIR OWN TIMER
COUNTS .

Step

20.81 189.35
21.13 204.44
21.08 190.38
20.75 188.97

Runs

Policy
Five passes
Three passes
Conditional three/five

Accepted Draft
Tokens/s drafts/event ms
28.69
28.94
27.05

Step
ms

4.45 49.84 189.35
3.97 32.01 171.27
4.09 47.71 187.55

Boot logs report 20.54 GiB of model-loading allocation in
every variant. Reported CUDA-graph pools are 1.52–1.59 GiB three/five-pass policy while retaining 32 physical verification
for the deployed runs, 0.42–0.50 GiB for stock attention, rows (Table VIII). These are drafting-policy variants, not
1.97 GiB without fused selection, and 1.47 GiB without pre- measurements of newly constructed 16-node or shallower tree
pared operands. Deployed KV capacity is 203,776 tokens versus topologies.
Three-pass drafting saves approximately 18 ms per cycle
197,632–198,656 for stock attention. These allocation reports do
but
reduces accepted drafts per event by about 11%. Its 0.9%
not measure peak serving memory, and the unequal capacities
pooled-rate
difference from the deployed runs is small relative
further limit attribution.
to
the
observed
variation of the repeated configuration; no
Output-side counters pooled over the repeated vLLM runs
reliable
gain
is
established.
The conditional policy has a lower
report 4.47 accepted drafts per speculative event for LumoTree
pooled
rate.
The
five-pass
configuration
is retained. An initial
and 3.17 for five-token MTP. These counters describe emitted
shortened-pass
implementation
duplicated
principal tokens into
drafts, excluding the correction or bonus token, and do not
inactive
sibling
leaves,
producing
misleadingly
low acceptance;
identify the committed path. SGLang reports only windowed acthe
reported
variants
use
the
repaired
implementation.
Those
ceptance averages, so no corresponding cumulative acceptance
earlier
measurements
and
the
correction
remain
in
the
supplecomparison is reported.
a) Disjoint request corpus: Table VII reports a separately ment.
frozen 43-request corpus from four additional Astropy task C. Acceptance and execution costs
conversations. Across three runs per vLLM arm, LumoTree
The task study emits an average of 4.12 accepted drafts per
records 30.74 pooled tokens/s versus native MTP-5’s 27.52, an
LumoTree speculative event. This output-side counter excludes
11.7% difference. Every individual tree rate exceeds every MTPthe correction or bonus token and does not identify the branch
5 rate in these runs. This second corpus supports the direction of
published into persistent state. Physical draft slots include
the observed replay difference, without establishing statistical
padding and are distinct from logical candidates.
significance, equal output distributions, or task-completion
Table IX characterizes the complete LumoTree cycle on these
improvement.
workloads. Dispatch combines sampling and native replay; the
SGLang records 30.24 tokens/s in its single run. Limited
GPU spans do not form an isolated critical-path decomposition.
cross-stack replication, different output lengths, and pooled
Acceptance and phase durations vary with the request corpus,
duration weights preclude a superiority or equivalence claim.
so higher replay acceptance is not evidence of better task
The small pooled tree–SGLang difference changes sign between
quality.
the two corpora. SGLang’s serialized prompt lengths exceed
vLLM’s by 33–156 tokens here, unlike the exact-token-ID D. Numerical and candidate-selection validation
comparison in Table IV.
We test GDN verification and accepted recurrent-state
b) Drafting-pass sensitivity: The deployed tree’s max- publication on two calibration and two held-out synthetic
imum depth is eleven, but neural drafting uses only five operand sets. Each set supplies 48 recurrent instances with the
MTP passes; suffix lookup supplies the deeper tail. We evaluated tree geometry: 32 physical output rows, including
therefore measure three-pass drafting and a suffix-dependent

TABLE IX
L UMOT REE ACCEPTANCE AND MEAN EXECUTION SPANS . D ISPATCH
INCLUDES ACCEPTANCE , PATH HANDLING , AND STATE COMMITMENT. GPU
TIMERS DIVIDE EACH DURATION SUM BY ITS OWN SPAN COUNT; WALL
TIME COVERS THE DECODING STEP. D ISJOINT REPLAY POOLS THREE RUNS .

Metric

Task study

Disjoint replay

4.12
114.05
54.26
20.16
195.91

4.72
109.77
48.17
20.94
185.05

Accepted drafts per event
Target GPU span (ms)
Drafter GPU span (ms)
Dispatch GPU span (ms)
Step wall time (ms)

Surface
GDN recurrent state
Convolution history
KV, newly committed positions
KV, earlier positions
Next-token KL divergence

TABLE X
GDN COMPONENT CHECKS ON GB10. B ITWISE COLUMNS COMPARE WITH
THE NATIVE CHAIN ; THE PAIRED RULE COMPARES BOTH IMPLEMENTATIONS
WITH A FLOAT 64 REFERENCE . C OUNTS ARE PER BLOCK AND PROCESS .

Operand sets

BF16 output
bitwise

Calibration
Held-out

3,004/3,072 2,688/2,688 5,760/5,760
3,018/3,072 2,688/2,688 5,760/5,760

FP32 state Paired rule
bitwise
passed

padding, and 28 accepted publication paths. Each block runs
twice in each of two fresh processes. These repetitions check
reproducibility; they do not increase the number of distinct
inputs.
For each head, we compare both implementations with
a float64 recurrence. We require both root-mean-square and
maximum absolute errors to satisfy
Etree ≤ 1.10Enative + 2−24 M64 + 2−149 ,

TABLE XI
F ULL - MODEL CONTINUATION OVER 126 CYCLES . M AXIMUM CANDIDATE
ERROR AND CANDIDATE - TO - NATIVE - ENVELOPE RATIO MAY OCCUR AT
DIFFERENT CYCLES . E VERY RATIO IS BELOW THE FROZEN LIMIT OF 2.
S TATE ERRORS ARE RELATIVE L2 ; KL IS IN NATS .

(6)

Maximum error Maximum ratio
0.435
0.304
0.375
0.234
0.111

1.08
1.22
1.22
1.17
0.74

operands, 93.31% of output elements agree with the reference
kernel within two ULP, the maximum absolute output difference
is 2−8 , and maximum log-sum-exp disagreement is four
ULP. All nine checks pass, including comparisons against a
float64 dense reference and checks for non-finite disagreements.
Split-K changes the reduction order, so its bounded error
accompanies the repeatability result.
Runtime traces confirm execution of the specialized kernel in
all sixteen attention layers, fused selection, device acceptance,
and captured state publication during the workload runs.
E. Full-model continuation
The full-model comparison evaluates six fresh prefixes of
approximately 23,000–46,000 tokens. For each prefix, three
schedules replay harvested natural accepted paths over seven
cycles, including a final root-only cycle that consumes the
last pending token. The 18 schedules therefore cover 126
continuation cycles. Two schedules import a common starting
state; the third resumes from each engine’s own prefix-cache
state. Every candidate forward is checked against all 32
recorded tree-input rows. These are replayed path schedules,
not a test of the live sampler’s complete output distribution.
Appendix C specifies the five serving processes and controls.
For state or logit surface s at cycle c, the frozen reference
envelope is

where M64 is the corresponding root-mean-square or maximum
magnitude of the reference. Table X reports all enumerated
cases passing in both processes. All published recurrent states
are bitwise equal to the native chain, while 68 calibration and
54 held-out output tensors differ in BF16 rounding. Native
and candidate results reproduce bitwise across repeats and
processes.
Calibration controls detect sibling substitution, swapped state
Rs (c) = max{Fs , ds (B, A; c), ds (V, A; c), ds (P, A; c)}, (7)
rings, and stale publication metadata. Poisoning an off-path
branch leaves the tested selected-path state unchanged, and a where A is the sequential reference, B a separate process,
zero-replay control is rejected. These results support the tested V a native cache-capacity control, and P a native packedkernel variant. State distance is the maximum per-layer relative
GDN scan and recurrent publication mechanism.
The fused full-vocabulary selection test compares the L2 error, with floor Fs = 0.02; next-token KL divergence
two output tensors against the reference argmax and top-k uses Fs = 0.15 nats. The candidate must satisfy ds ≤ 2Rs
operations. Across 1,368 input cases and five block-count on every surface and cycle. Constants were calibrated on an
settings (6,840 configurations), it records zero byte mismatches; earlier collection and frozen before these fresh prefixes were
planted negative controls fire. A separate captured four-level evaluated.
All 126 cycles satisfy the numerical rule (Table XI), and all
selection graph completes 24 replays with zero mismatches.
ten
injected faults are detected at their mutation cycles. The
The reference selection outputs match exactly on these inputs
candidate
greedy token matches A on 122/126 cycles; the four
and graph replays.
disagreements
satisfy the frozen logit-margin allowance. The
Attention tests use the same kernel build as the ten-task
separate-process,
cache-capacity, and packed-kernel controls
deployment. They show bit-identical repeated output and logagree
on
119,
124,
and 119 cycles, respectively. Thus the result
sum-exp values within each of sixteen determinism cases,
establishes
agreement
under the stated bounds, not bitwise
with matching digests across two processes. On synthetic
model
equality
or
strict
greedy-output equality.
query/key/value tensors drawn at scales measured from model

The ten faults comprise five types on two prefixes: omitted
convolution gathering, omitted recurrent replay, incorrect KV
remapping, stale root input, and sibling-state publication. Every
cache-resumed case starts with at least 91.9% of its prefix
cached, across all five arms (30 observations). One candidate
repeat is bitwise identical over its seven cycles. This covers
prefix restoration on the tested inputs, rather than the full
cache-admission and eviction lifecycle.
The separate calibration collection does not count as held-out
validation; its original inconclusive verdict is preserved in the
supplement. MTP drafter state and batch sizes above one are
outside this comparison.
F. Sampling scope and deployed penalty histories

TABLE XII
S AMPLER - AUDIT FAULT SENSITIVITY ON SIX CAPTURED STEPS . E ACH
FAULT TYPE IS DETECTED AT LEAST ONCE ; DETECTION DEPENDS ON
WHICH NODES THE WALK VISITS .

Injected fault
Temperature applied twice
Target rows shifted
Fixed residual draw
Unconditional acceptance
Correlated random draws

Steps detected
6/6
6/6
5/6
3/6
1/6

TABLE XIII
R ECURRENT AGREEMENT ON GB10 UNDER DISTINCT SEQUENTIAL
REFERENCES . C OUNTS GIVE CELLS OUTSIDE THE PAIRED ERROR BOUNDS
AMONG 64,512 OUTPUT CELLS AND 6,912 STATE CELLS PER
CONFIGURATION , WITH IDENTICAL COUNTS IN BOTH REPEATS . T HE TWO
REFERENCE GROUPS ARE NOT A COMMON ACCURACY RANKING .

a) Scope of exact sampling: The sampling rule is exact
for the intended target distribution only when the supplied
probabilities are correct. We restrict this claim to penaltyConfiguration
Output cells State cells
free sampling: presence and frequency penalties are zero,
Native GPU recurrence reference
the repetition-penalty multiplier is one, min-p is zero, and
LumoTree
0
0
probability filters use matching tie conventions. The tree path
ignores min-p, and its top-k implementation retains exactly k
Sequential software references
Weaver author-default
53,745
1,154
tokens, whereas native single-row decoding retains boundary
Weaver (FP32 preparation)
57,707
388
ties. These differences must be absent or aligned even in the
TreeWY author-default
37,528
6,912
penalty-free regime. The numerical continuation result does
not prove joint output-distribution equality.
The deployed and SWE-bench runs instead use presence
one step (Table XII). Non-rejection supports this finite sampler
penalty 1.0. Their logits processor constructs a flattened draft
check; it does not prove universal exactness or validate the
history, as for a chain, rather than each node’s ancestry. A
deployed penalty histories.
target row should include the path through its parent; a leaf
An earlier ten-boot, 8,000-continuation output diagnostic
continuation row should include the leaf itself. Flattening can
failed its frozen temperature-control sensitivity requirement and
penalize tokens from sibling branches and omit the current leaf
remains uninformative. The tree sampler also seeds one processtoken. The first token of a step has the correct penalty history;
wide generator with zero, so boots with identical request order
subsequent decisions can differ. We therefore describe these
reuse random sequences. They cannot be treated as independent
runs as departing from exact autoregressive sampling after the
sampling replicates. The probability-history audit identifies a
first token of each step, without asserting that every subsequent
specific deployed defect despite that uninformative output test.
token changes.
b) Captured-row and sampler audit: A passive capture G. Recurrent agreement under distinct references
of 40 tree steps on four requests contains 2,480 processed
We compare recurrent verification and accepted-state publitarget and continuation rows, including padded slots. All match cation using held-out synthetic operands spanning 48 recurrent
the flattened-chain history; only 63 coincide with the correct instances and 48 value heads. Verification covers the tree’s
path history. Reconstructed probabilities from captured top- 28 active nodes. Three accepted-path publications produce a
256 logits estimate node-level total variation above 0.01 on history of 1, 6, and 11 updates, including Weaver’s accepted
approximately 22% of deeper decisions, with maximum 0.421. replay and TreeWY’s final deferred commit. Each configuration
These estimates use rounded logits and depend on filter tie is evaluated twice in one process, with a fresh initial state for
handling; they are not joint-sequence total variation.
each cycle. A numerical cell fixes the recurrent instance, output
The deployed target-only walk consumes target and continu- node or publication, and value head; errors are reduced over
ation logits without a separate draft-probability tensor. Its CPU the remaining vector or matrix entries.
floating-point oracle is sampled 200,000 times on each of six
Each cell must satisfy both root-mean-square and maximum
captured steps, for 1.2 million walks. Tests compare emitted- absolute error bounds,
token counts conditional on visiting a node with the supplied
Emethod ≤ 1.10Eseq + 2−24 M64 + 2−149 ,
(8)
probability row, using an approximate chi-square G-test and a
−3
Bonferroni-adjusted per-step threshold of 10 . Nodes require
where errors are measured against the specified float64 reat least 2,000 visits; rare expected counts are pooled. No
currence and M64 is its corresponding root-mean-square or
departure is detected in 54 node tests against the supplied rows.
maximum magnitude. For LumoTree, the sequential comparator
Comparison with corrected ancestry probabilities rejects five
is the native GPU recurrence. Weaver and TreeWY use
of six steps. All five planted fault types are detected in at least

TABLE XIV
GDN COMPONENT LATENCY IN MILLISECONDS ON GB10. V ERIFY,
PUBLISH , AND TOTAL COLUMNS GIVE GRAPH - MODE MEDIANS ; EAGER
GIVES THE TOTAL MEDIAN WITHOUT VERIFIER GRAPH REPLAY. T REE WY
FUSES PUBLICATION OF THE PREVIOUS FRONTIER WITH THE CURRENT
VERIFICATION ; ITS FINAL FLUSH IS REPORTED SEPARATELY. T HESE ARE
TIMING OBSERVATIONS UNDER DISTINCT NUMERICAL POLICIES .

Method

TABLE XV
NAMED PERSISTENT BUFFER ALLOCATIONS AND NUMERICAL ERROR FOR
THE GDN MEASUREMENTS . O UTPUT AND STATE COLUMNS ARE MAXIMUM
ABSOLUTE ERRORS AGAINST THE FLOAT 64 RECURRENCE ; STATE USES THE
DEEPEST ACCEPTED PATH . B UFFER TOTALS EXCLUDE OUTPUTS , SEPARATE
PAGE POOLS , GRAPH POOLS , AND TEMPORARY PER - CALL ALLOCATIONS ;
THE NAIVE STATE BANKS INCLUDE RESERVED NULL AND DURABLE SLOTS .
T HESE ARE NOT PEAK SYSTEM MEMORY OR MEASURED MEMORY TRAFFIC .

Verify Publish Total Eager

LumoTree
12.90
4.49 17.69
Native path baseline
29.71
2.70 32.41
PyTorch node baseline
52.32
2.70 55.02
TreeWY author-default
fused
11.01
Weaver author-default
2.07
1.38 3.45
Weaver (FP32 preparation) 4.05
1.40 5.45

17.58
33.73
81.04
11.71
5.88
9.13

sequential software comparators that do not emulate every
tensor-core rounding operation.
TreeWY retains the author implementation’s normalization
floor of 10−12 and BF16 dot products. Weaver uses TF32
verification, FP32 elementwise accepted replay, and an additive
normalization constant of 10−6 . We report both its authordefault preparation and a variant with FP32 preparation. The
two Weaver variants retain their respective preprocessing
conventions.
Table XIII reports the cells outside each implementation’s
paired bounds. All configurations produce finite tensors and
reproduce bitwise between repeats. TreeWY’s BF16 compact
commit and its sequential comparator’s FP32 outer-product
updates, for example, are different floating-point computations.
The normalization and arithmetic conventions are part of the
numerical comparison and must be interpreted alongside its
reference choice (Section IX).
H. Recurrent verification and publication costs
We measure verification and accepted-state publication on
shared synthetic operands for 48 GDN instances with the
model’s head dimensions, using the 28 active nodes of the
deployed 32-row tree. Each measurement has 20 warmup
iterations and 100 timed iterations. CUDA events bracket
verification and publication; a 256-MiB buffer is written outside
each timed iteration. Graph mode captures the verifier while
retaining each method’s publication wrapper; eager mode
invokes the verifier directly. Accepted paths cycle through
all 28 possible frontiers. Durable state is reset before each measurement and evolves across iterations. These measurements
exclude attention, convolution, sampling, model projections,
and interleaved execution of the remaining model layers.
The native path baseline uses native recurrent updates
with the same path cover but stores every node’s full state.
The PyTorch baseline instead updates nodes sequentially in
topological order. Both publish by copying the selected leaf
into durable state. LumoTree records a 17.69-ms graph-mode
total, with a 10th–90th percentile interval of 17.18–17.84 ms,
versus 32.41 ms (32.36–32.67) for native paths. Total medians
are measured directly; they need not equal sums of region
medians.

Method
LumoTree
Native path baseline
PyTorch node baseline
TreeWY author-default
Weaver author-default
Weaver (FP32
preparation)

Buffers (MiB) Output error

State error

−4

2.62 × 10−6
2.62 × 10−6
6.51 × 10−7
5.10 × 10−3
5.06 × 10−3
8.55 × 10−7

132.5 4.82 × 10
5,040.0 4.82 × 10−4
5,040.0 4.82 × 10−4
192.8 6.31 × 10−4
25.1 5.28 × 10−4
31.1 5.18 × 10−4

TreeWY’s steady step takes 11.01 ms. A finite sequence
also requires its initial verification without a pending commit
and a final deferred publication; the latter takes 10.51 ms in
this implementation. Weaver includes accepted-path replay in
its total. Its graph-mode topology rebuild takes approximately
0.02 ms separately and is excluded from the table because the
topology is reused. These boundaries must be retained in a
complete-cycle comparison.
Table XV sums the tensor allocations explicitly retained
for verification and publication. LumoTree’s 96-MiB cut-state
buffer is reused across layers; only five cut rows, totaling 15
MiB per layer, are logically exported. This agrees with the
storage formula in Section IV, but does not measure physical
memory transactions. Operand rings and publication staging
contribute the remaining named buffers. The deployment’s
separately allocated 1.5-GiB recurrent page pool is excluded.
The naive baselines retain a 34-slot bank (32 physical nodes,
one null slot, and one durable slot) and a staging copy for
publication. Thus allocation boundaries differ across implementations. Framework peak allocations and all raw timing
samples are preserved in the supplement.
The errors in this experiment are descriptive, rather than
an admission criterion. TreeWY and the two Weaver variants
retain the preprocessing and precision differences described
in Section VII-G. Consequently, faster timings here do not
establish equal-accuracy superiority, and they do not overturn
the paired-bound failures in Table XIII. These isolated GDN
measurements also do not predict a full-model decoding
speedup.
VIII. D ISCUSSION
The design couples tree geometry, physical layout, and
continuation publication. Optimizing any one of these in
isolation can move work elsewhere or invalidate another
stage’s mapping. Transient cut states, graph buffers, and native
persistent rows serve different purposes: their separation makes
the storage and recomputation tradeoff explicit. Path scans
retain sequential arithmetic, while native replay pays accepted-

path update work to return persistent state to the serving Stream buffering and parsing enter the client-side duration;
representation.
subtracting one token approximates the first output interval
For coding agents, decoding rate and task completion when a speculative chunk contains several tokens. Exact input
measure different effects. Additional tokens can reflect more IDs remove the serialization discrepancy only in the first
reasoning or a longer tool loop, and tool execution contributes corpus’s SGLang comparison. The disjoint replay and live
to agent duration without entering the decode denominator. agent study use separate chat templates, attention and prefill
Recorded-request replay fixes incoming messages but does not implementations. Optimization variants have limited repetitions
execute the newly generated tools or subsequent agent decisions. and do not isolate every transformation. Equal memoryThe measured 10.2% and 11.7% rate advantages over five- fraction settings do not establish equal KV-block capacity.
token native MTP therefore apply to the two request corpora GPU instrumentation overhead has not been measured. Boot
and serving configuration. The penalty-history discrepancy allocation logs do not establish peak serving memory. Named
means these are comparisons of the implemented sampling scratch allocations exclude other resident buffers and temporary
procedures, rather than equal target-distribution comparisons. work; logical state-export bytes are not measurements of
They do not transfer to a task-level speed claim: in the live memory traffic.
agent study, LumoTree generates more tokens, takes longer in
X. C ONCLUSION
aggregate, and resolves five tasks compared with MTP’s six.
LumoTree combines path-parallel recurrent scans with
Task outcomes and GPU spans describe complementary parts
native replay and a shared mapping for convolution, attention,
of the serving/application boundary.
acceptance, and drafter continuation. Sampled replay on GB10
IX. L IMITATIONS
yields 28.79 versus 26.12 pooled tokens/s for five-token native
a) Numerical scope: The component results cover recur- MTP, and 30.74 versus 27.52 on a disjoint corpus, with three
rent verification and publication, attention error, and candidate runs per arm. The 30-attempt task study records 26.19 versus
selection. The held-out full-model comparison covers 126 27.17 tokens/s and five versus six resolved tasks. Full-model
replayed continuation cycles with sensitive fault controls. It continuation satisfies frozen native-relative numerical bounds
permits native-relative numerical error and margin-bounded over 126 cycles and detects all ten injected faults. Sampling
greedy disagreements, rather than establishing bitwise or exactness is restricted to penalty-free settings with matching
strict greedy equality. Harvested paths do not validate the filters and correct target probabilities; the measured presencelive acceptance loop or MTP drafter state, and 18 schedules penalty-1.0 runs depart from exact sampling after the first
do not exhaust every path combination. Prefix restoration is token of each tree step. The results characterize bounded
covered on the tested prompts; cache admission and eviction, numerical agreement and replay rates of the implemented
row reuse, batch sizes above one, and complete distribution system, without claiming lossless deployed sampling or taskpreservation remain outside that result. The deployed penalty- completion speedup.
history defect makes the measured tree sampling approximate
A PPENDIX A
after the first token of each step. Exactness is restricted to
S ERVING C ONFIGURATION AND M EASUREMENT
the penalty-free, filter-matched regime and remains conditional
The implementation artifact [37] documents the serving
on correct supplied probabilities. Finite sampler non-rejection
cannot prove universal exactness. The paired recurrent tests use route and component studies. This revision’s source and data
different sequential comparators and preprocessing conventions, supplement preserves the additional task study, recorded-request
so they do not establish a common accuracy ranking. Their replays, continuation diagnostics, and recurrent cost measureisolated timings omit the rest of the hybrid model. Matching ments. Input manifests, run selections, pooled-rate reductions,
starting states, tokens, and positions does not guarantee identical allocation accounting, raw timing samples, and failed or invalid
intermediate hidden tensors or identify the cause of native observations remain separate from the manuscript’s scientific
claims.
variation.
All measured tree runs use presence penalty 1.0. Exactb) Performance and task scope: The task study contains
one sampled attempt per task and arm, ten selected Astropy sampling claims apply only to penalty-free, filter-matched
tasks, and no plain-decoding agent control. It provides neither settings with correct target probabilities; the measured tree
a benchmark-wide quality estimate nor an isolated task- deployment departs from exact sampling after the first token
completion speedup: the arms execute different request and of each step (Section VII-F).
Workload rates use Eq. 5; token counts and latency sums
tool trajectories. Both replay corpora have three repetitions per
principal vLLM arm; the disjoint corpus has one SGLang run cover the same completed requests. Metric counters are
and is drawn from four additional task conversations within checked for continuity, resets, and outstanding requests at
the same project. Repeated tree boots reuse a process-seeded task boundaries. First-output latency, tools, and evaluator time
random sequence and are not independent sampling replicates. remain distinct from decode duration. GPU phase times divide
This limited replication does not establish significance, SGLang each timer’s duration sum by its own span count. Output-side
parity, or broad workload generalization. Sampling changes acceptance counters describe emitted draft lengths and do not
output lengths, and the response cap truncates some requests. identify the committed tree path.

TABLE XVI
S ERVING SETTINGS FOR THE THREE - ARM TASK STUDY. NATIVE MTP AND
L UMOT REE SHARE THE V LLM BUILD . E XACT VERSIONS AND LAUNCH
SETTINGS ACCOMPANY THE SUPPLEMENT.
Setting

Configuration

Target

Qwen3.8-27B; mixed NVFP4/FP8 weights, BF16
execution
Same-checkpoint one-layer BF16 MTP in all arms; no
separate EAGLE draft weights
27 drafts plus root, padded to 32 rows; maximum depth
11; five MTP passes and suffix extension
MTP: five drafts; SGLang: seven steps, top-k one,
capacity eight drafts
vLLM: forked FlashAttention-2; LumoTree adds
grouping 2 and split-K 4; SGLang: FlashInfer
One active sequence; 4,096 prefill tokens for vLLM,
8,192 for SGLang
131,072 tokens; memory fraction 0.70; actual KV
capacities not equalized
Qwen Code 0.19.4; one task at a time; 9,000 seconds
24,000 tokens per request
Temperature 0.6; top-p 0.95; top-k 20; min-p 0;
presence penalty 1.0

Drafter
LumoTree
proposals
Native proposals
Attention
Scheduling
Context /
memory
Agent / budget
Response cap
Sampling

For target probabilities p and proposal probabilities q,
ordinary rejection sampling combines accepted mass min(p, q)
with residual mass proportional to (p − q)+ . This gives the
target marginal for the probabilities actually supplied [1],
[2]. Serving additionally requires that subsequent forwards
consume the state associated with the accepted path and
that logits processing constructs that path’s target distribution.
Our exact-sampling claim is limited to the penalty-free, filtermatched regime; the history-dependent measured deployment
is approximate as described in Section VII-F.
A PPENDIX B
A DDITIONAL W ORKLOAD R ESULTS
Table XVII retains every attempt in the three-arm task study.
Agent duration includes model service and tool execution,
excluding server startup and subsequent evaluation. Emptypatch outcomes are distinguished from patches that reach the
test evaluator.
TABLE XVII
TASK - LEVEL OUTCOMES . ID S HAVE PREFIX A S T R O P Y __ A S T R O P Y -.
E ACH CELL GIVES ROUNDED AGENT MINUTES AND OUTCOME : R,
RESOLVED ; F, FAILED TESTS ; E, EMPTY PATCH .

Task suffix
13977
14096
14182
14309
14365
14369
14508
14539
14598
14995

LumoTree

MTP-5

SGLang

8/F
24 / R
6/F
3/R
3/F
32 / F
37 / R
6/R
21 / F
4/R

10 / F
20 / E
6/E
2/R
2/R
18 / R
7/R
3/R
27 / F
5/R

21 / F
10 / E
1/E
2/R
3/R
16 / F
7/R
17 / R
20 / F
5/R

A PPENDIX C
F ULL -M ODEL C OMPARISON P ROTOCOL
The continuation comparison uses five fresh serving processes: sequential reference A, an independent process B,
a native cache-capacity control V , a native packed-GDNkernel variant P , and LumoTree. The reference uses a 40 GiB
KV allocation; V uses the candidate’s observed allocation.
Candidate capacity follows its deployed memory-fraction policy.
All arms consume matching forced tokens and positions and
retain their own published state across subsequent cycles.
Six prefixes from four additional Astropy task conversations
are disjoint from the earlier continuation and first replay corpora.
A separate harvest records natural tree inputs and accepted
paths. Each prefix supplies three seven-cycle schedules: a cold
salted prefix with a common starting-state import, an unsalted
repeat that primes the cache with the same import, and a
cache-resumed case with no import. The last cycle accepts
only the root to consume the final pending token; next-forward
logits also observe the subsequent pending token. The rootonly cycle is included in the 126-cycle total. Candidate-input
checks compare every one of the 32 verification rows with the
recorded tree.
The frozen numerical rule uses the largest same-cycle
native-control distance, floored at 0.02 for state relative
L2 and 0.15 nats for next-token KL. Candidate distance
must not exceed twice this envelope. A greedy mismatch
is permitted only when A’s top-two logit margin is within
max(0.25, 2 maxB,V,P k∆logitk∞ ) or the native controls are
categorically unstable outside that band; at most 10% of
cells may be native-unstable. Input parity, complete sealed
observations, starting-state read-back, and detection of every
injected fault are prerequisites. These allowances make the
verdict a numerical agreement test, rather than exact token or
logit equality.
Five fault types run on two prefixes each at a selected natural
cycle: omitted convolution gathering, omitted recurrent replay,
incorrect KV remapping, stale root input, and sibling-state
publication. Each must exceed the same base case’s bound on
its designated surface; sibling publication may exceed any of its
three targeted state surfaces. Faults are reported separately from
the 126 clean cycles. Prefix-cache coverage requires at least
90% cached tokens in every cache-resumed observation. One
clean candidate case is repeated in the same process. Earlier
invalid forcing and insensitive comparison records remain in
the supplement with their original dispositions.
R EFERENCES
[1] Y. Leviathan, M. Kalman, and Y. Matias, “Fast inference from
transformers via speculative decoding,” in Proceedings of the 40th
International Conference on Machine Learning, ser. Proceedings of
Machine Learning Research, vol. 202. PMLR, 2023, pp. 19 274–19 286.
[Online]. Available: https://proceedings.mlr.press/v202/leviathan23a.html
[2] C. Chen, S. Borgeaud, G. Irving, J.-B. Lespiau, L. Sifre, and J. Jumper,
“Accelerating Large Language Model Decoding with Speculative
Sampling,” 2023. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.01318

[3] X. Miao, G. Oliaro, Z. Zhang, X. Cheng, Z. Wang, Z. Zhang,
R. Y. Y. Wong, A. Zhu, L. Yang, X. Shi, C. Shi, Z. Chen,
D. Arfeen, R. Abhyankar, and Z. Jia, “SpecInfer: Accelerating large
language model serving with tree-based speculative inference and
verification,” in Proceedings of the 29th ACM International Conference
on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating
Systems, Volume 3. ACM, 2024, pp. 932–949. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3620666.3651335
[4] S. Yang, J. Kautz, and A. Hatamizadeh, “Gated delta networks:
Improving Mamba2 with delta rule,” in The Thirteenth International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://openreview.net/forum?id=r8H7xhYPwz
[5] Y. Wu, Z. Qin, A. Wong, and S. Soatto, “STree: Speculative tree
decoding for hybrid state-space models,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.14969
[6] Z. Wang, X. Han, Z. Yang, F. Liu, X. Li, R. Gu, S. Zhong, and C. Tian,
“SpecLA: Efficient Speculative Decoding for Linear-Attention Models,”
2026. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2607.16673v1
[7] Y. Oda, R. Mathieu, R. Knyazhitskiy, and A. Chakhvadze, “Trees
from Marginals: Autoregressive drafting with factorized priors,” 2026,
technical report. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2607.06763
[8] C. E. Jimenez, J. Yang, A. Wettig, S. Yao, K. Pei, O. Press,
and K. Narasimhan, “SWE-bench: Can language models resolve
real-world GitHub issues?” in The Twelfth International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2024. [Online]. Available: https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=VTF8yNQM66
[9] Z. Chen, A. May, R. Svirschevski, Y. Huang, M. Ryabinin, Z. Jia,
and B. Chen, “Sequoia: Scalable and robust speculative decoding,” in
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 37, 2024, pp.
129 531–129 563. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.52202/0790174116
[10] Y. Li, F. Wei, C. Zhang, and H. Zhang, “EAGLE-2: Faster inference of
language models with dynamic draft trees,” in Proceedings of the 2024
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing.
Association for Computational Linguistics, 2024, pp. 7421–7432.
[Online]. Available: https://aclanthology.org/2024.emnlp-main.422/
[11] J. Wang, Y. Su, J. Li, Q. Xia, Z. Ye, X. Duan, Z. Wang, and M. Zhang,
“OPT-Tree: Speculative decoding with adaptive draft tree structure,”
2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.17276
[12] Y. Li, F. Wei, C. Zhang, and H. Zhang, “EAGLE-3: Scaling up inference
acceleration of large language models via training-time test,” in Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 38, 2025, pp. 136 737–
136 756.
[13] J. Chen, Y. Liang, and Z. Liu, “DFlash: Block Diffusion for
Flash Speculative Decoding,” 2026. [Online]. Available: https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2602.06036
[14] W. Kwon, Z. Li, S. Zhuang, Y. Sheng, L. Zheng, C. H. Yu, J. E.
Gonzalez, H. Zhang, and I. Stoica, “Efficient memory management for
large language model serving with PagedAttention,” in Proceedings of
the 29th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles. ACM, 2023, pp.
611–626. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3600006.3613165
[15] L. Zheng, L. Yin, Z. Xie, C. Sun, J. Huang, C. H. Yu,
S. Cao, C. Kozyrakis, I. Stoica, J. E. Gonzalez, C. Barrett, and
Y. Sheng, “SGLang: Efficient execution of structured language
model programs,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, vol. 37, 2024, pp. 62 557–62 583. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.52202/079017-2000
[16] R. Pan, Z. Wang, Z. Jia, C. Karakus, L. Zancato, T. Dao, Y. Wang, and
R. Netravali, “Marconi: Prefix Caching for the Era of Hybrid LLMs,”
2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.19379
[17] SGLang Team, “Hybrid Models Meet SGLang: More than Full Attention,”
https://pytorch.org/blog/hybrid-models-meet-sglang-more-than-fullattention/, 2025.
[18] SGLang Project, “Qwen3-Next SGLang documentation,” https://lmsyso
rg.mintlify.app/cookbook/autoregressive/Qwen/Qwen3-Next, 2026.
[19] T. Dao, D. Haziza, F. Massa, and G. Sizov, “Flash-Decoding for longcontext inference,” https://pytorch.org/blog/flash- decoding/, 2023,
October 13.
[20] Z. Ye, L. Chen, R. Lai, W. Lin, Y. Zhang, S. Wang, T. Chen, B. Kasikci,
V. Grover, A. Krishnamurthy, and L. Ceze, “FlashInfer: Efficient and
customizable attention engine for LLM inference serving,” in Proceedings
of Machine Learning and Systems, vol. 7, 2025.
[21] J. Yao, K. Chen, K. Zhang, J. You, B. Yuan, Z. Wang, and
T. Lin, “DeFT: Decoding with flash tree-attention for efficient

tree-structured LLM inference,” in The Thirteenth International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://openreview.net/forum?id=2c7pfOqu9k
[22] Z. Pan, Y. Ding, Y. Guan, Z. Wang, Z. Yu, X. Tang, Y. Wang, and
Y. Ding, “FastTree: Optimizing Attention Kernel and Runtime for TreeStructured LLM Inference,” in Proceedings of Machine Learning and
Systems, vol. 7, 2025.
[23] T. Dao, “FlashAttention-2: Faster attention with better parallelism
and work partitioning,” in The Twelfth International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2024. [Online]. Available: https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=mZn2Xyh9Ec
[24] S. Yang, B. Wang, Y. Zhang, Y. Shen, and Y. Kim, “Parallelizing linear
transformers with the delta rule over sequence length,” in Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, vol. 37, 2024, pp. 115 491–
115 522. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.52202/079017-3668
[25] Y. Wu, Y. Dukler, M. Trager, A. Achille, W. Xia, and S. Soatto, “Snakes
and Ladders: Accelerating SSM Inference with Speculative Decoding,”
in Proceedings of the 4th NeurIPS Efficient Natural Language and
Speech Processing Workshop, vol. 262. PMLR, 2024, pp. 292–304.
[Online]. Available: https://proceedings.mlr.press/v262/wu24a.html
[26] L. Zhong, S. Xu, H. Wen, T. Xie, Q. Guo, Y. Wang, and M. Li,
“SpecMamba: Accelerating Mamba inference on FPGA with speculative
decoding,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.19873
[27] H. Borobia, E. Seguí-Mas, and G. Tormo-Carbó, “Component-aware
self-speculative decoding in hybrid language models,” 2026. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.01106
[28] L. Wang, Y. Su, X. Wu, C. You, Y. Liu, Z. Qiu, J. Zhang, J. Zheng,
F. Liu, J. Zhang, C. Tian, and C. Huan, “Bole: Efficient Tree Speculation
for Hybrid-Attention Language Models,” 2026. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2608.01651
[29] S. M. Ghantasala, “TreeWY: Speculative Verification for Gated DeltaNet
Hybrids,” 2026. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2608.20961
[30] ——, “TreeWY: Tree Speculative Decoding for Hybrid GDN Models,”
https://github.com/vllm- project/vllm/issues/54080, 2026, author
implementation RFC; accessed September 26, 2026.
[31] Dao AI Lab and NVIDIA, “ReplaySSM: Cache SSM Inputs Instead of
State,” https://dao-lab.ai/blog/2026/replayssm/, 2026, author technical
report; accessed September 26, 2026.
[32] X. Yang, C. Peng, Y. Zhao, L. Zeng, A. Hu, J. Yang, S. Wang, J. Lv,
X. Liang, C. Yang, J. Liu, and Y. Qiu, “OneLA: Scaling Linear-Attention
Decoding to Large Beams in Generative Recommendation,” 2026.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2609.12399v1
[33] H. He, “Defeating Nondeterminism in LLM Inference,” https://thinki
ngmachines.ai/blog/defeating-nondeterminism-in-llm-inference/, 2025,
Thinking Machines Lab, September 10, 2025.
[34] G. Oliaro, Z. Jia, D. Campos, and A. Qiao, “SuffixDecoding: Extreme
Speculative Decoding for Emerging AI Applications,” 2025. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04975v3
[35] Snowflake Arctic Inference, “Suffix Decoding,” https://arcticinferenc
e.readthedocs.io/en/latest/suffix-decoding.html, 2026, implementation
documentation; accessed September 24, 2026.
[36] Y. Hu, K. Wang, X. Zhang, F. Zhang, C. Li, H. Chen, and J. Zhang,
“SAM Decoding: Speculative Decoding via Suffix Automaton,” 2024.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10666v3
[37] Z. Ma, “LumoTree: Implementation and Experiment Artifact,” https:
//github.com/MaCoredroid/Lumo_FlyWheel/tree/lumotree-v2-artifactr1/papers/gdn- tree- scan- mlsys/v2, 2026, version 1; paper source,
evaluated implementations, and supporting experiment records.

